---
main: Rangos
sub: Magia arcana
---

## Rank I

Roll an additional hit die on protective attack rolls. Add 2+Rank chi to your reserve.

<u>Shield</u>: Using your magic you are able to create a shield of strength, which protects you from physical and magical attacks. Shield is a reaction for which you roll your Protection magic dice defensively. Once per turn you can cancel a hit generated by the attacker (2 times per turn at Rank III and 3 times at Rank V). You can protect an ally with this ability, but this will consume 1 chi from your reserve. 

<u>Chi Disruption:</u> You can disrupt the function of a magic item or your opponent's chi as a standard action. This consumes 1 chi from your reserve and causes the target to reduce its effectiveness by 1 if it is a magic item or receive a -1 penalty on magic rolls if it is humanoid. Removing the effects of Disruption requires a move action and spending 1 chi from your reserve. At Rank III Disrupt affects all magic in a 15-foot cone (15-foot radius at Rank V).

<u>Counterspell:</u> As a reaction you can counter a spell or magic attack cast by an enemy. The Counter Spell roll is equivalent to your Protective Magic dice rolled defensively. You can use 1 chi from your reserve to cancel the spell automatically. You must be in a defensive position to expend chi in this manner, and for the spell to be countered it must not exceed your Rank by 2 or more, be a spell that requires concentration, or be a Counterspell. 

## Rank II

<u>Mage Armor:</u> You receive Magic Resistance equal to your INT - 2 and defense against physical attacks equal to your Rank in Protection Magic. Activating magic armor costs you a standard action (a move action if you spend 1 chi of your resrva) and cannot remain active for more than one minute at a time unless you maintain concentration. Wizard's armor is canceled when you enter an area of anti-magic Aura.

<u>Dispel Magic:</u> You are able to temporarily remove a passive magical ability or defensive spell from your target. Remove magic is a standard action that consumes 1 chi from your reserve, and consists of making a Protective Magic roll against your target's magic ability. If you succeed, your target will lose a defensive magic ability of Rank equal to or lower than yours (examples are Smudge, Magic Armor or Mental Shield). At Rank IV you can use Remove Magic to remove all spells of Rank less than yours active within a 10-foot radius of your choice (e.g., Glyphs of Protection or Lesser Portals).

## Rank III

Roll an additional looseness die on protective attack rolls.

<u>Absorb Magic:</u> When you hit the target with Remove Magic you can use 2 perks to reduce the target's chi pool by 1. If you spend 2 additional perks you can recover 1 chi from your pool. As a full turn action you can drain chi from a magic item, nullifying its magical properties for one day and recovering chi from your pool equal to the item's level. This ability does not work on artifacts.

<u>Hold person:</u> As a standard action that consumes 1 chi you can grab a creature with energy bindings. If you succeed on the roll the creature will be grappled by your spell. As long as it remains grappled it cannot cast spells and you may spend a move action to move it 15 feet in any direction. Keeping hold of a creature requires your concentration and at rank V you may spend 1 additional chi on this ability to affect all creatures within 15 feet.

<u>Glyph of Warding:</u> Using a ten minute duration ritual you can bind a spell to a magic glyph. You choose the glyph's activation conditions, be they with a keyword or if a given creature enters its area. Each glyph protects a 20-foot area, and you cannot have more than one glyph in the same area. When the glyph is activated, it will immediately use the spell it has attached to it. The roll will be equal to your protection magic dice and will count as a surprise attack if the creature suffering the effect has not seen the glyph or has Amazing Dodge. If you bind an evocation magic spell to the glyph, it will do energy damage equal to your Protective Magic Rank and affect all creatures in an area of 5 feet x Protective Magic Rank. Identifying a Glyph requires success on a Knowledge roll.

## Rank IV

<u>Spell turning:</u> Upon succeeding on a Counterspell roll or reducing a spell's damage to 0 with your Magic Armor, you may employ 2 generated disadvantage to bounce the spell back to its caster. You will roll your Protective Magic dice on the attack roll, and you can cast the bounced spell in any direction you wish. If the spell you bounce belongs to a branch of magic you already know, you can use your abilities on it as if it were your own. Bounce magic does not work with Mental or Illusory Magic.

<u>Antimagic Aura:</u> As a standard action that consumes 2 chi you can nullify all magic in a 15-foot radius centered on you, forming an aura where arcane magic does not work. As long as the aura remains active, all technological and magical items in it cease to function and you have immunity to all spells. In addition, a creature that has ranks in magic will not be able to use it if it is inside your antimagic aura. Antimagic Aura fades when you lose concentration and cannot be cancelled by Remove Magic unless the mage is Rank IV or higher. Antimagic aura does not apply against elemental or innate magic, but does apply against mental, illusionary, telekinesis or necromancy magic.

## Rank V 

Roll an additional casting die of fluency on protective attack rolls.

<u>Disjunction:</u> When using Remove Magic you can nullify the magical abilities of an object or person by spending 2 additional chi or 4 generated perks. Disjunction causes the target to instantly lose all magic abilities it has active. In the case that he does not have any active ability, then his chi reserve will be reduced to 0. If you affect an item, it will lose its magical properties until it is repaired. Magic Disjunction can be countered with Counterspell.

<u>Imprisonment:</u> You can perform a two-turn ritual to seal a creature in an inescapable prison. Imprison may only be used on an incapacitated creature and only once per day. When the ritual ends the creature will be trapped in a demiplane accessible only by you or creatures of your choice. The demiplane is also affected by anti-magic zone and the creature's soul will be bound to it, resurrecting there in case it dies. An imprisoned creature can be freed with the Threshold spell if the demiplane where it has been trapped is known.