---
title: Alabardas
main: Rangos
sub: Armas
---

# Ranks

## Rank I

Add an additional proficiency dice to attack rolls.

<u>Brace:</u> You can spend a move action to brace yourself against an upcoming charge. If you are braced you can do an opportunity attack against a creature that passes through a square in you reach with your weapon. This attack will deal +2 base damage and if you hit the target must stop immediately. 

<u>Parry:</u> You can block attacks made against you using your weapon, rolling your dice defensively against enemy attacks. Substract one difficulty dice from your pool when attempting to block attacks made by adjacent enemies, but parry can be used to protect allies within your reach. Once per turn you can cancel a success generated by the attacker (twice per turn at rank III and three times per turn at rank V).

## Rank II

<u>Adjust reach</u>: You can adjust your hand position to increase or decrease your reach. With this ability you can change your reach by 5 feet as a move action, reaching a maximum of 15 ft. If you reduce your reach to 5 ft you lose the ability to protect allies using parry in exchange for adding an additional difficulty dice to parry rolls, while if your reach increases to 15 ft substract another difficulty dice from your parry rolls. Using Adjust reach can be used once per turn as a bonus action at rank IV.

<u>Sidesweep strike:</u> As a full-round action you can attack all creatures in a 15 ft arc. Spend 2 advantages generated on a sidesweep strike to trip a target. A sidesweep strike will stop immediately if a defender succeeds in a defensive roll with a shield against your attack.

## Rank III

Add an additional proficiency dice to attack rolls. Spend 2 advantages to inflict a lesser injury on the target (medium injury if you spend 4 advantages).

<u>Expert flanker:</u> Your weapon deals +2 damage against targets you are flanking. The benefits of flanking apply to your attacks against all targets within your reach that are adjacent to an ally. Expert flanker will not affect creatures that are immune to flanking.

<u>Snaking pole:</u> Your mastery with polearms lets you perform complex combat maneuvers. When you successfully strike an enemy you can forgo dealing damage to disarm the target or make it unable to defend itself against your next attack. Doing polearm attacks now cost you a move action.

## Rank IV

<u>Circular strike:</u> Sidesweep strike now costs you a standard action. As a full-round action you can attack all creatures within the reach of your weapon. Targets that are hit with your weapon will be pushed 5 ft back (5 additional feet as a move action). A circular strike will stop under the same circumstances as Sidesweep strike.

<u>Polearm charge:</u> Your weapon deals +2 damage when doing a charge. Whenever you hit a target after doing a charge you can spend 2 advantages to pierce it with your weapon. A target which is pierced by your weapon reduces its speed by 10 ft and adds a setback die to all its rolls. If you are have a grip on a pierced weapon you can spend a move action to do a push or grapple maneuver. Removing a pierced weapon costs a move action and on doing so the target will receive a lesser injury (if the body part that you hit already had a permanent injury removing a pierced weapon will increase its level by 1 instead).

## Rank V

You roll an additional loosening die on attack shots. You spend 2 allowances to inflict a medium permanent wound (4 allowances to inflict a severe permanent wound).

<u>Sudden charge:</u>

<u>Vital strike:</u>

Sudden Charge: If you spend your movement action on using charge preparation, at any time during the enemy turn you can make a charge as a reaction. Spear charge damage is added to this attack.

Vital Attack: The permanent wounds you cause with spear preparation are of a higher level. Spend 4 advantages to leave the target at 0 VP and dying.

Reposition: You receive the ability to reposition with light blades as if you had it at Rank three (i.e. you can move 5 feet in reaction to a successful stop).

# Weapons

A base halberd does 3+Successful puncture damage and has a Rank of 5 feet. A base halberd can be modified with the following features to produce all types of related weapons.

- Launching: The weapon can be launched from a distance of 20 feet, functioning as a long-distance weapon. You will roll your weapon dice for a throwing attack and continue to apply the Prepare to Charge and Life Attack skills.
- Cutter: The weapon has a cutting blade at its tip. You receive the Fierce Slash attribute at rank I but will lose Winding Attack. You also deal +1 base damage when performing a side attack.
- Staff: The weapon lacks a tip, dealing heavy damage on impact. You receive the Mighty Attack attribute at rank I and Concussion at rank III, but you will not be able to stick your weapon and reduce base damage by 1.
- Hook: The weapon has a hook on its tip that allows you to easily drag your targets. It reduces your base damage by 1 but you can spend 2 advantages generated in an attack to hook your weapon, allowing you to move your target 10 feet in any direction as a movement action. At Rank IV you receive the Destroying Hit skill.
- Giant: The weapon is oversized. It increases your Rank by 5 feet and base damage by 1, but requires FUE 4 or more to use the weapon. A giant weapon can be held with one hand if you are mounted.
- Grip: The weapon has a clip on its tip that can grab the enemy. Your weapon reduces its base damage to 0 but will grab your target if you succeed in your attack (the grip can affect a part of your target's body if you spend 2 advantages). You can spend a movement action to squeeze with the claw, making an attack with it against the grabbed creature. At rank III you receive the Destroyer Hit with Clamp skill. The claw can be covered with thorns, which will inflict Bleeding on the creature you grab.
- Double: The weapon has a second tip with which you can perform attacks. When making an attack with your weapon you can declare it as a double attack. By making a double attack you can make an additional attack as a bonus action but you will roll one skill die less on both attacks. When you reach rank III you will be able to apply your weapon skills to your second attack and at rank V you will not have any penalty on a double attack.

