---
title: Reflejos
main: Rangos
sub: Combate
---

## Rank I

Add a challenge die to your defensive dodge rolls. Once a turn you can cancel a success generated by the enemy.

<u>Greater speed</u>: You receive an additional move action on your turn. Add a Difficulty die to all your Dodge rolls to avoid attacks made by creatures larger than you. 

<u>Finesse:</u> The light weapons you carry are hardly detectable and capable of killing before your enemy realizes it. Drawing a light or subtle weapon costs you a bonus action and if you get 2 perks on a sneak attack you can spend them to keep your target from making a noise when hit or steal an item they are carrying. If you are hidden when making an attack you can spend 2 perks to hide again if you have concealment or are out of the field of view of the creature you are attacking.

## Rank II

When an enemy misses your attack you can move 5 feet as a reaction. This does not provoke attacks of opportunity.

<u>Evasion:</u> You suffer no mandatory damage from area attacks if you succeed at the shot. If you get enough disadvantage on the defense roll to move out of the radius of the area attack, you dodge it completely even if you don't succeed (each disadvantage spent moves you 5 feet).

<u>Uncanny dodge:</u> You react to danger before your senses allow you to do so. You can use dodge against surprise attacks and invisible attackers, though they will still roll an Advantage die and add the additional damage from [sneak attack](https://raldamain.com/rules/Rangos/Armas/filos%20perforantes.html#rango-i). Amazing dodge does not work against feints.

## Rank III

Add one Challenge die to your defensive dodge rolls. You can cancel an enemy success one additional time per turn.

<u>Acrobatics</u>: You receive climbing speed equal to your normal speed. You can walk on narrow surfaces and difficult terrain without penalties, plus you can dodge normally with this one.

<u>Haste:</u> You get a second standard action per turn. With that action you can attack, use combat maneuvers or employ full defense. You cannot cast spells or make elemental attacks with that action.

## Rank IV

When an enemy misses your attack you may move 10 feet as a reaction. This does not provoke attacks of opportunity.

<u>Superior Evasion:</u> You gain resistance against area attacks equal to your skill-2. You can spend generated disadvantage on defensive throw to move 10 feet instead of the 5 normally allowed.

<u>Superior Uncanny Dodge:</u> You cannot be flanked and are immune to sneak attacks made by creatures with lower dexterity than you. You are immune to [feint](https://raldamain.com/rules/Rangos/Armas/filos%20perforantes.html#rango-ii) effects made by creatures with lesser or equal Dexterity to yours.

## Rank V

Add a challenge die to your defensive dodge rolls. You may cancel an enemy success one additional time per turn.

<u>Freedom of movement:</u> You gain resistance equal to your Dexterity-2 against grappling and other effects that attempt to restrain you. You do not provoke attacks of opportunity when moving out of range of a creature.

<u>Opportunist:</u> Once per turn, make an attack of opportunity against a creature hit by an attack made by another creature. If the attacker is an ally, it may spend 1 advantage it generates so that you can add an Advantage die to your Opportunist attack. This attack is counted as flanking for the purpose of [sneak attack](https://raldamain.com/rules/Rangos/Armas/filos%20perforantes.html#rango-i).