---
title: Influence
main: Ranks
sub: Social
---

## Rank I

Add a proficiency die to your Influence rolls. You can roll Influence to defend against mental effects.

<u>Mask:</u> You hide your true intentions under a real or figurative mask, concealing your true identity to accomplish your plans. This ability grants you resistance equal to your Influence rank against [Find Out Intentions](https://raldamain.com/rules/Crear%20personajes/talentos.html#averiguar-intenciones-sab) rolls to detect whether you are lying or seeing through your disguise. In addition, it is impossible to distinguish the link between you and your false identity unless you give strong hints of it. 

<u>Persuasive:</u> Your silver tongue is capable of getting you out of a lot of trouble. As a standard action you can make an influence roll against a target's wisdom or charisma (the statistic used is at the discretion of the master). In case you succeed, your target's attitude towards you will increase by one step, reaching friendly at most. This ability cannot be used on hostile creatures and will only have an effect on the same person once a day. At rank V you can affect all creatures within 30 feet with this ability.

## Rank II

<u>Rumormonger:</u> You have an excellent ear for rumors and gossip in addition to a keen ability to find them. Employing this skill requires spending two hours searching numerous public places such as taverns, markets, or bars. Employing this skill requires an Influence roll against a difficulty set by the master depending on the rarity of the rumor. The advantages generated by this roll allow you to find clues to valuable information while the disadvantages cause you to receive unwanted attention. If you have ranks in Tracking and have chosen an urban favored terrain you are able to employ this skill to gather information from a person as if you were tracking them.

<u>Exploit favors:</u> Your strong persuasion skills allow you to subtly move friendly individuals to perform certain favors for you. Asking for a favor is an Influence roll made against a difficulty decided by the master according to the risk of the favor and the attitude of your target towards you. In case a favor is dangerous or exaggerated the master may consider that the target may refuse. Some examples of favors are asking for a loan, asking for more compromising information or performing a task for you.

## Rank III

Add a proficiency die to your Influence rolls.

<u>Guarded mind:</u> You are able to suppress certain thoughts to protect yourself from mind magic, granting you resistance to them equal to your Influence rank - 1. In the event that an attempt to read your mind fails you may show him the information you wish without the mind mage noticing that it has been altered. In this way, the magic will not be able to determine your true identity or whether you are telling the truth.

<u>Blackmail:</u> The rumors they find can lead you to uncover the dirty laundry of certain influential figures. Finding such information requires a [seek rumors](https://raldamain.com/rules/Rangos/Social/influenciar.html#rango-ii) roll against a higher-than-normal difficulty for which all modifiers you receive for favored enemy or prey will be added. In case you succeed you can use the discovered information to force your target to follow your orders and perform risky favors even though it is hostile. However, the blackmailed creature will try to hide the information at all costs and will try to silence you at all costs.

## Rank IV

<u>Perfect Imitation:</u> Your mastery of deception allows you to adopt the identity of real people with the Mask skill, perfectly imitating the way they speak and act. Using this skill requires you to spend several days studying and observing your target to imitate their actions more fluently (the exact time will be decided by the master). The imitation will be indistinguishable to the real person even for his closest acquaintances, but you can arouse suspicion if you act differently or do not know certain information that he would know. 

<u>Gaslighing:</u> You are so adept at lying that you are able to make anyone who hears them doubt their own senses. By succeeding on an Influence roll against a character who has a neutral or superior attitude towards you you can make him doubt the veracity of an event up to 10 minutes long, causing him to treat it as if it had been his imaginings. This ability does not work if there is reliable proof that the event occurred or there are other witnesses, and in case you fail the creature with whom you interact will reduce its attitude towards you by one step. 

## Rank V

Add a proficiency die to your Influence rolls.

<u>Sow discord:</u> Your words are capable of turning friends into enemies and breaking the strongest alliances. Sowing tares costs a standard action and for it you must make an Influence roll against any number of people within 30 feet of you (if they are on the same side you must roll against the leader's Charisma stat). In case you succeed, they will start to doubt each other and will reduce the attitude they have towards each other by one step (this will be reduced by two steps if you have incriminating information from one of them). If you reduce the attitude to neutral they will lose all morale bonuses and will not be able to flank or defend each other. 

<u>Puppetmaster:</u> You are able to reduce the people you talk to to simple puppets moved by your will, manipulating them to ensure their loyalty or destroy their willpower. Once per interaction you can make an influence roll against your target which will cause damage to his sanity in case of success equal to 2 + the successes generated. In case you manage to reduce her sanity to 0 you can obtain her absolute and unconditional loyalty or force her to commit suicide. This ability cannot be used on characters hostile to you unless you have a way to blackmail them.