---
title: Armas de fuego
main: Rangos
sub: Armas
---

## Rank I

Roll an additional proficiency die on attack rolls. You spend 2 advantages to inflict a mild injury (4 advantages to inflict a medium injury).

<u>Deadly aim</u>: Your attacks are exceptionally deadly when targeting enemies in a close range. Whenever you attack a target which is less than 30 feet away your damage will ignore all defense modifiers given by natural or manufactured armor (15 feet away for one-handed weapons). Before declaring an attack you can add a difficulty die to your roll to increase the distance of deadly aim by 15 feet, allowing you to ignore your target's defense.

<u>Quick draw</u>: Drawing your weapon costs you a move action instead of a standard action. If you use a one-handed weapon, drawing it will cost you a bonus action instead. You also have +1 priority in the initiative count (+2 at rank III and +3 at rank V).

## Rank II

<u>Quick Reload:</u> Reloading a weapon now costs you a move action, while large weapons would require a standard actio. You can now spend a move action to attack with your firearm.

<u>Bullet trick</u>: Your skilled marksmanship allows you to use your attacks in an unexpected way to weaken your target's defenses. This ability allows you to spend 2 advantages you have generated on a hit to activate one of the following effects. If you miss your attack you can spend 4 advantages instead to use such effects.

- **False shot**: The target is feinted for a turn, making it unable to dodge the next attack it will receive. You can spend an additional advantage to give a boost die to the next character which attacks your feinted target.
- **Thunderous burst:** The shot causes a loud bang which frightens your target, causing them to be shaken for a turn. You can spend an additional advantage so your target moves 5 feet in a random direction (spend 2 advantages so they fall prone).
- **Lucky Shot:** Destroy a small object the target is carrying, such as potions, sheathed weapons or a side bag. If the hit object is a bomb it will explode immediately. You can spend 2 additional advantages so they drop the item they are carrying

## Rank III

Roll an additional proficiency die on attack rolls. You spend 2 advantages to inflict a medium injury (4 advantages to inflict a severe injury).

<u>Precise shot</u>: Your attacks have become even more accurate than before, allowing you to ignore anything but total concealment and cover. Whenever you attack a target affected by your deadly aim ability it will lose all defensive bonuses given by cover and concealment. This ability does not work against targets which have total concealment or cover against you.

<u>Sniper's eye:</u> By carefully aiming your attacks you can do deadly shots against even more distant targets. You can spend a move action to increase your deadly aim radius by 15 feet without receiving a penalty. You will also increase your weapon's damage by 2 when attacking targets which cannot defend themselves. 

## Rank IV

<u>Shot on the run</u>: You can move before and after shooting, distributing your total movement as you wish (15 feet before and 15 feet after for example). You are also not penalized when firing from a mount or a moving vehicle

<u>Quick shot:</u> Once per round you can spend a bonus action to do an additional attack with your firearm. This ability can also be used to create cover fire to protect an ally of your choice, allowing you to roll your attack dice defensively to protect them. The disadvantages generated by quick shot can be used for bullet tricks.

## Rank V

Roll an additional proficiency die on attack shots. You spend 2 advantages to inflict a severe permanent injury.

<u>Killing shot</u>: When you hit an enemy with an attack, you spend 4 advantages to multiply your base damage by 2, automatically inflicting a serious injury if you deal at least one point of damage. To use this skill you must have used deadly aim in your attack.

<u>Expert marksmanship</u>: Your attacks are able to hit your target before they can react. If you spend a move action to aim your attack you can make the defender unable to use a shield or magical defenses to stop your attack. This will not work against characters in defensive position.

# Weapons

A base firearm does 5+success piercing damage, has a medium range of 90 feet and requires a standard action to reload. Drawing a weapon of this size will cost you a standard action (move action if it is a handgun). This weapon is made for campaigns set in the Renaissance or pirate era, but also serves for more modern campaigns with the appropriate improvements. A base firearm can be modified with the following features to accommodate all types of related weapons.

- **Handgun**: The weapon can be used with one hand, reducing its base damage by 1 and its distance by 30 feet in exchange for greater ease of use. Handguns require only one movement action to reload and can be used in combat with two weapons.
- **Chamber**: The weapon has a chamber that can hold several bullets. The chamber allows the weapon to fire 6 shots before it must be reloaded. A gun with a chamber is typical of campaigns set in the industrial era or the old west. 
- **Shotgun**: Instead of bullets, the gun will fire a shower of lead pellets. A pellet gun must have a chamber and will expend it completely with each shot, but it will be able to hit all creatures in a 15-foot cone when firing and inflict +1 base damage. 
- **Double Barrel**: The weapon fires two bullets per turn with an attack at the cost of making it more difficult to use. Base damage from a double-barrel weapon increases by 2 but you will add one difficulty die on attacks made with it.
- **Potent**: A potent weapon fires the bullets with greater power but will have great recoil strength. A potent weapon deals +1 base damage but can only be used by characters with FUE 2 or more. If the weapon is two-handed the user must have STR 3 or more or will receive a one setback die penalty on all their shots.
- **Automatic**: The weapon has a system to shoot bullets automatically. Making an attack automatically costs you a standard action and you will be able to attack every creature in a 30 foot cone, starting with the nearest one. These attacks will consume 4 bullets each but they  will deal +2 base damage. Weapons with this ability will have a 40 bullet chamber and are typical of campaigns set in modern times or science fiction.
- **Sniper**: The weapon can shoot at targets at a greater distance and kill them with a single bullet. As a standard action you can aim your gun, increasing your range to a maximum of 200 feet. In this state you will deal +2 damage and can use Deadly Aim if you make a surprise attack against your target. Weapons in this category are typical of modern or science fiction campaigns.

