---
title: Two-weapon fighting
main: Ranks
sub: Armas
---

## Range I

<u>Skill with two weapons:</u> As a bonus action once a turn you can make an attack with your secondary weapon with a penalty of one skill die. This penalty disappears when you reach rank III.

<Combat style: You get a number of attributes depending on the weapon you carry in your secondary hand. Every time you raise your rank with two weapons you receive the attributes listed in the skill list.

## Slashing blades

### Range I

<Double stop: You can use stop once in addition to your turn with your secondary weapon (you still get the penalty). Also, the ability to cancel a success can be used once in addition to the turn (a third time at rank III).

<When hitting the same target with your two weapons in the same turn, your second attack deals +2 base damage. This skill can only be used once per turn.

### Range II

<When you use the Big Cut action you can also attack with your secondary weapon. You will shoot one less green on the cut but you will affect a 5 foot radius centered on you. This attack can only be stopped if a shielded character succeeds in his defense twice.

<You can spend 2 advantages to disarm an opponent without the need to be on locked swords. Your opponent cannot use Stop to defend himself from your secondary weapon when he has the locked sword.

### Range III

<You do +2 base damage using steel whirlwind and deal 1 additional automatic damage to each shield you hit with this ability. When you spend one movement action on slice in sequence you do an additional attack with your secondary weapon (1/turn).

## Piercing Blades

### Range I

<Divert Attacks: Your secondary weapon can divert attacks that break through your defenses. Once a turn you can make a second stop against an attack that successfully hits you using your secondary weapon. You cannot cancel successes with this skill.

<Sneak Fighting: You apply the precise attack damage to your second weapon whenever you roll a dice for an attack advantage with it. This skill is also applied against dummy enemies. You lose the benefits of Stealth Fighting if you are unarmed from your main weapon.

### Rank II

<Catching a weapon: using your two weapons you can catch swords bigger than yours. You can use the Clash of Swords skill by spending 2 advantages (see Heavy Edges), with which you can disarm heavy edge weapons. You can't fake if you have your weapon locked unless you have the Dummy skill

<Targeted attacks: You can make targeted attacks with your secondary weapon as if it were your primary weapon. You are not penalized for making a targeted attack with your secondary weapon if your target is faked.

### Range III

<As a standard action, make an attack with your two weapons on a specific point of your opponent's body. When using this skill you can't make attacks with your secondary weapon or use fast attacks, but you will increase the base damage of your attack by 2. If you use Slash against an enemy who is surprised you can spend 2 advantages to use the Vital Strike skill (normally it costs 4 advantages).

## Chains

### Range I

<You are able to use Chain Dance with your secondary weapon if you do not attack with it. This way entering in a defensive position costs you a bonus action. By using a standard action to enter defensively you will do +2 damage in opportunity attacks against creatures that enter the area you are threatening. 

<Whirlwind attack: Using a whirlwind attack costs you a standard action. You can use a full turn action to attack all creatures within your range. Chain dance is activated by using this skill, and Whirlwind attack can be stopped in the same way as circle attack.

### Range II

<If you get the same target tangled up in your two chains, it is automatically grabbed without you having to use a moving action. Moving or stamping a grabbed creature costs you a bonus action the first time you do it, and to escape your grip the creature must succeed in two rolls against your chains. You cannot use spinning chains or charge attack while holding a creature.

<You can use the Reflect Projectiles skill as long as the Spinning Chains effect is active. You still can't reflect high speed projectiles, although once a turn you can cancel a success generated by an enemy attack (2/turn if you have range III in chains and 3/turn if you have range V)

### Range III

<Instead of attacking with your two chains you can make them revolve around you at high speeds, allowing you to load an attack with each of your chains and immediately activate the Chain Dance skill. If you damage the same target with your two attacks, their armor suffers damage equal to the number of turns you have been charging your chains (maximum 3 damage). If the target has 0 armor it increases the effectiveness of your permanent wounds by 1.

## Firearms

### Rank I

<u>Weaken defenses:</u> You can shoot with your secondary weapon to expose your target to other attacks. You gain advantage in bullet tricks made with your secondary weapon and whenever you hit an enemy with it all subsequent attacks you make against the same target will receive advantage as well.

<u>Cover Shots:</u> You are able to create cover fire with your secondary weapon to protect yourself from attacks. When using this ability you will receive disadvantage on all your attacks made with your secondary weapon, but you will be able to use your firearms to protect yourself from attacks, adding your attack bonus to defensive rolls. Using this ability will consume an additional bullet per turn.

### Rank II

<u>Rain of lead:</u> You can fire multiple shots at once to attack a large group of enemies. This ability allows you to concentrate numerous attacks into one, increasing the area of effect by 5 feet and the base damage by 2 for each attack used in this manner. Attacks made with lead rain will count as area attacks, dealing half damage against enemies that manage to defend themselves successfully against your attack.

<u>Predict movement</u>: You have a supernatural instinct for danger. You receive the uncanny dodge ability (improved uncanny dodge if you already have it) and upon receiving a surprise attack you can make an attack of opportunity with your secondary weapon as a reaction. Your firearm attributes will also apply to this attack.

### Rank III

<u>Master gunslinger:</u> When attacking a creature that has suffered damage at some point in the round you will increase your base damage by 1d6. Reloading your secondary weapon costs you a move action and you do not need to have a free hand to do so. 