---
title: Shield
main: Rangos
sub: Armas
---

## Rank I

Roll an additional challenge die on defensive Shield rolls. Once per turn you may cancel one success or two advantages generated by the attacker.

<u>Shield attack:</u> As a bonus action you can make an attack with your shield. The attack roll is equal to your shield's defensive dice and on hit you will push your target 5 feet per success rolled. Spend two generated perks to trip and 4 to inflict a light wound (you can inflict a medium wound at rank III and a heavy wound at rank V). You must move at least 5 feet to make a shield attack and when you make a charge you will do 2 additional blunt damage, which is modified by your strength as if it were a physical attack. 

<u>Protect Allies:</u> You can defend an adjacent ally as a reaction, using your shield to protect them. If you do so, you will use your roll in place of the ally's defense roll, but in the event of failure you will suffer the damage of the attack. If the enemy gets 2 advantages on his attack roll he may choose to do damage to the ally you protect and not to you.

## Rank II

<u>Intercept:</u> You can spend a move action to prepare to intecept an enemy attack at any time during the round. When you use intercept, you can charge toward a moving enemy and make an attack with your shield. If you manage to hit, you will stop him on the spot and you can spend 4 perks to stun him. When you use Intercept you will immediately exit your Defensive Form.

<u>Defensive Form:</u> You have the ability to enter a state of absolute defense, becoming an impassable barrier. Entering defensive form move action and while you remain in such a state increases your FUE and CON by 1 in addition to granting an additional difficulty die on shield rolls and resistance equal to your rank against combat maneuvers. Defensive Form deals 1 non-lethal damage per turn and ends when you move or are [fatigued](https://raldamain.com/rules/Reglas%20principales/Efectos%20de%20estado.html#fatigada). This ability can only be used if you carry a shield.

## Rank III 

Roll an additional challenge die on defensive Shield rolls. You may cancel one success or two generated advantages twice per turn.

<u>Powerful Charge:</u> On impact with a charge, you may spend 2 perks to [slow](https://raldamain.com/rules/Reglas%20principales/Efectos%20de%20estado.html#ralentizada) the target for 1 turn (4 perks to stun). Increase the base damage you deal when charging by 1 and when charging you cause creatures with lesser strength than yours to instinctively move out of your way, leaving you free to attack. At rank V again increases your charge damage by 1.

<u>Mobile Barrier:</u> When you enter defensive form you grant cover to all creatures behind you in a 15-foot cone, allowing them to cancel an additional hit per turn. You can move and stay in defensive form, but to do so each move will cost you a standard action or suffer 2 non-lethal damage when you perform it.

## Rank IV

<u>Guardian:</u> You receive immunity to flanking and surprise attacks when entering defensive form. In addition, entering defensive form increases your DEF by 1 and enemies adjacent to you will gain one die disadvantage on attack rolls against your allies.

<u>Hold position:</u> Once per round you can make an attack of opportunity against a creature passing through the area of your range. The attack must be made with your shield and upon impact the target must be stopped instantly. This ability can only be used if you are in defensive form.

## Rank V

Roll an additional challenge die on defensive Shield rolls. You may cancel one success or two generated advantages three times per turn.

<u>Shield Mastery:</u> Entering defensive form grants you an additional challenge die on shield rolls and increases stat boosts by 1, and may exceed 6. You give superior cover to allies you protect with mobile barrier and may move 5 feet in reaction to protect an ally.

<u>Rebound spells:</u> The shield can protect allies from magical attacks. When using shield to block a magical attack, if you succeed on the defensive roll you cancel the attack immediately, thus causing no person in the moving barrier area to suffer mandatory area damage. You will also not suffer mandatory damage from area attacks by successfully blocking with your shield.

# Weapons

A base shield is made of wood and allows you to roll four difficulty dice on defense rolls, but you will receive a -1 penalty on all your DEX rolls. An attacker can spend 4 generated disadvantages to cause damage to your shield, reducing the difficulty dice awarded by 1. A shield can be modified with the following characteristics to result in all types of shields:

- **Light:** A light shield is easier to carry and use at the cost of protecting you less. You suffer no penalty to your DEX when defending yourself with a light shield but you will roll one less difficulty die on defense rolls.
- **Metallic** A metallic shield has greater resistance than a wooden one, causing it to suffer 2 points of damage before the difficulty dice it awards can be reduced. Shields of this type increase the penalty to DEX by 1 unless you have 4 or more STR.
- **Tower**: A tower shield is a large barrier capable of protecting your entire body from attacks at the cost of greatly reducing your mobility. A tower shield allows you to cannulate one additional success per turn on defensive rolls and adds one additional difficulty die on defensive rolls, but in turn increases your DES penalty by 1 and reduces your movement by 10 feet. If your strength is equal to 6 or more you will lose the penalties granted by a tower shield. When you use the Mobile Barrier ability you grant full cover to all creatures within a 15 foot cone behind you.
- **Spined**: Your shield is covered with sharp spines capable of injuring creatures that hit it. A shield with this feature deals +1 piercing damage on hit and will cause the [bleed](https://raldamain.com/rules/Reglas%20principales/Efectos%20de%20estado.html#sangrado) effect if your target is not wearing armor. When defending against a natural or martial arts attack you can spend generated disadvantage to inflict bleed on the attacker (spend additional disadvantage to suffer 1 piercing damage).















 

