---
title: Piercing blades
main: Rangos
sub: Armas
---

## Rank I

You roll an additional hit die on attack rolls.

<u>Sneak Attack:</u> Your attacks target enemy weaknesses. Your attacks inflict +2 damage on surprise or flanking attacks. Before attacking, you can target a vulnerable part of your target's body to overwhelm their defense. This ability allows you to add an additional difficulty die to your attack roll in exchange for ignoring a point of defense your target has. If you manage to reduce your target's defense to 0 with this skill you can inflict a light wound on impact. At rank III you can ignore 2 points of defense with this ability and at rank V you can ignore 3 points.

<u>Parry:</u> You can use parry to protect yourself from enemy attacks. This ability works the same as the heavy-edged aptitude parry, but when attempting to block a powerful attack the enemy can spend 2 perks to break your weapon. Once per turn you can cancel a hit generated by the attacker (twice per turn at Rank III and three times per turn at Rank V).

## Rank II

<u>Quick Attack:</u> Spend a move action to make an additional attack with your weapon. You may spend the move action granted by [quickness](https://raldamain.com/rules/Rangos/Combate/reflejos.html#rango-i) for this ability.

<u>Feint:</u> When you make an attack with your weapon you can spend 2 perks to feint the target. You do not have to succeed in order to feint, but if you feint you do no damage with your attack. A target that is feinted cannot use dodge or parry to defend against your next attack.

## Rank III 

You roll an additional hit die on attack rolls. Spend 2 perks to inflict a light wound (4 perks to inflict a medium wound). 

<u>Disarm:</u> Spend 2 perks generated to disarm the target, causing his weapon to fall into a space 5 feet away (+1 perk to throw him 5 feet farther). You cannot disarm enemies with higher proficiency ranks on their weapon than you, and to disarm someone not using a light weapon you must give them a permanent wound to the arm.

<u>Reposition:</u> On a successful parry you can move 5 feet as a reaction without provoking attacks of opportunity. If you move out of range of the enemy weapon it counts as if you used the [disengage] action(https://raldamain.com/rules/Reglas%20principales/reglas%20de%20combate.html#acci%C3%B3n-de-movimiento). At rank V you can move 10 feet with this ability.

## Rank IV

<u>Spring Attack:</u> Your weapon's range increases by 5, allowing you to attack and make attacks of opportunity on enemies in that area. As a standard action you can make a 30-foot leap with which you avoid attacks of opportunity you receive by retreating from combat. Creatures with ready actions cannot use them to attack you if you move with Leaping Attack.

<u>Greater feint:</u> When feinting you can make an additional attack against your target, for which precise attack applies as if it were a sneak attack. You can only feint this way 1 time per turn.

## Rank V 

You roll an additional hit die on attack rolls. Spend 2 perks to inflict a medium wound (4 perks to inflict a serious wound).

<u>Vital strike:</u> When you hit with an accurate attack you can spend 4 perks to multiply your base damage by 2 in addition to inflicting a grievous wound. If you succeed in reducing your target to 0 HP you can choose to kill them instantly without them being able to make saving throws.

<u>Counterattack:</u> Upon making a successful parry, spend 2 generated disadvantage to make a counterattack. You can use counterattack a number of times equal to your skill per combat, thus being able to make multiple attacks of opportunity per turn. Counterattack does not work against another counterattack.

# Weapons

A base piercing blades weapon deals 2+Success piercing damage and has a range of 5 feet. This can be modified with the following features to result in all types of related weapons.

- **Throwing:** The weapon can be thrown a distance of 20 feet, functioning as a ranged weapon. You will roll your weapon dice for a throwing attack and the Sneak Attack, Vital Attack, and Feint skills will continue to apply. Throw can be applied to any piercing edge weapon that has the subtle feature.
- **Finesse:** The weapon is smaller in size and easier to use. A subtle weapon reduces its base damage by 1 but is able to penetrate weak points in your target's armor, allowing you to ignore an additional point of defense when making a targeted attack.
- **Dueling:** The weapon is longer and thinner, making it ideal for sword duels. A dueling weapon increases its base damage by 1 and receives the [Locked Swords](https://raldamain.com/rules/Rangos/Armas/filos%20cortantes.html#rango-iii) ability at rank III, but may not be used in your secondary hand. You can still gain attributes in two-weapon combat if you have a dueling weapon in your primary hand and a subtle weapon in your secondary hand.
- **Slashing:** The weapon is equipped with several blades with which you can inflict lethal slashes. The weapon's damage will change to slashing and you will receive the [fierce slash](https://raldamain.com/rules/Rangos/Armas/filos%20cortantes.html#rango-i) skill at rank I. 
- **Retractable**: The weapon has the ability to shrink with great speed, allowing you to keep it hidden and attack when your target least expects it. A retractable weapon is undetectable at first sight and with it you will be able to perform surprise attacks even if your target sees you. If you attack a person who is watching you, he will have the chance to roll a perception or intent check against your attack dice, noticing your weapon if he succeeds.