---
title: Magia de sangre
main: Rangos
sub: Magia elemental
---

## Rango I

Add a proficiency die to all of ypur elemwntal attacks

<u>Elemental attack:</u> As a standard action manipulate the target's blood, causing them great internal pain. This attack does 2+success necrotic damage to an enemy within 60 feet of you. Spend 2 advantages for the target to receive bleeding (4 for them to be sickened). The target defends with their Con .

<u>Spasms:</u> You can generate advantages obtained in a blood attack to cause spasms to the target. These are some of the possibilities of spasms: 

- Legs (1 advantage): Target moves 5 feet in any direction. Spend 2 additional advantages to make it fall to the ground.
- Arms (1 advantage): The target moves his arm in any direction. Spend 2 additional advantagesto make him release the itemin his hand or to make him unable to use parry for one turn.
- Torso (2 advantages): The target is fatigued for one turn. Spend 2 additional advantages to make him exhausted.

This ability can also be used defensively, allowing you to roll your blood magic dice to protect yourself from attacks. You can also cancel a success or two advantages generated by the attacker once per turn (this ability can be used twice per turn at rank III and three times at rank V).

## Rango II

<u>Blood Biography:</u> You are able to learn information about another person through their blood. Doing the analysis requires one minute of concentration and you can determine when the blood was spilled and its ownership. You can only determine ownership if the blood belongs to one of your acquaintances, if it is unknown then you are able to identify it if you match it with a sample from the owner.

<u>Blood drain:</u> Other people's blood heals your wounds. When you make an elemental touch attack against a creature you heal vitality equal to the number of successes you generate + the number of bleed dice it has. If you are at maximum vitality this ability heals your HP, and you can spend 4 generated advantages to reduce the level of one of your wounds by 1. If you have water elemental magic. You can draw water for your elemental attacks from any living thing.

## Rango III

Add a proficiency die to all your elemental attacks. Increase your base damage by 1.

<u>Blood sense:</u> You have blind sense in a 60-foot area, allowing you to detect all creatures with blood in the area. You can also identify all creatures in the area whose blood you have analyzed with Blood Biography, knowing their current physical state and condition.

<u>Excruciating pain:</u> Al impactar a un objetivo con un ataque elemental, gasta 2 ventajas para provocarle heridas internas. Una criatura aquejada por heridas internas sufre 2 daño no-letal cada vez que realice una acción. El objetivo tira CON al final de su turno para recuperar, eliminando este efecto al tener éxito. Las heridas internas pueden sanarse con un ataque elemental de sangre, Magia de vida u otros atributos relacionando con la sanación. Gasta 2 ventajas generadas con este ataque para generar una herida permanente media (4 para una herida grave).

## Rango IV

<u>Multiple drainage:</u>  As a full turn action you can target all creatures in a 20 foot area with your elemental attack. Creatures defend against this attack using constitution and evasion does not apply. Spend 2 advantages generated with this attack to heal 1 vitality (you can use this ability against multiple targets in an area).

<u>Blood Telekinesis:</u> You are able to manipulate people's bodies like puppets, moving them at your will. If you hit with an elemental attack, you can spend 2 advantages to telekinetically grab it. Spend a movement action to move it 15feet in any direction , it must roll strength to escape your grip. You can have a maximum of Rank-2 creatures in your telekinetic grip.

## Rango V 

Add a proficiency die to all your elemental attacks. Increase your base damage by 1.

<u>Blood self-control:</u> You have mastered controlling the blood in your body. You are immune to bleeding, poison, diseases and nausea. You also have resistance against blood magic equal to your Rank.

<u>Dominate person:</u> When you grab a target you can manipulate their own actions. As long as you keep your concentration on the target you can force the physical actions they take in their turn, controlling them as if they were under the effect of enslaving. Controlling their actions costs you a movement action, you can only control one creature in this way.

